I'm going to show you an error that I made while I was programming these exercises,
and I want to see if you can spot it and then we'll talk about how
the override keyword can actually help catch these kind of errors.
So we have a class animal,
and this class has a pure virtual function talk and I'm going to create
a class dog that inherits from class animal,
and this class dog is going to have a function talk.
It's going to have the same function signature as the base class,
and then we'll define
the function and we will return woof.
Then here in main,
we'll create an object dog of of type dog and we will assert that
dog.Talk equals equals woof.
Let's compile and run this.
I don't have to namespace,
a Talk function and the function compiles and runs and dog.talk equals woof.
Everything's great, but there's an error in
this function and I wonder if you can spot it.
This would be a good place to pause and pour over
these 19 lines of code and see if you can figure out where the error is.
Are you ready? All right.
So if you've spotted the error, congratulations.
It took me a couple go rounds to realize the error I was making.
The error is that class dog does not actually inherit from class animal.
Class dog is totally separate from class animal.
In fact, what we need to do is say that dog inherits from animal,
could inherit from public animal or private animal,
just inherit from animal.
Now, when we compile and run the code,
again everything works, it's fine.
You might ask yourself,
does it even matter?
For the purposes of this sample code,
it actually does not really matter.
I was trying to demonstrate overriding
a virtual function and when dog fails to inherit from animal,
then Talk is not overriding anything.
It has no relationship to the function Talk in the animal class.
But still, the code works and there's not much to complain about.
In larger programs though,
you might run into issues if you think you're
overriding some other function and in fact you're not overriding it.
A way we might have actually caught this error is if I hit
"Follow best practices" and used the override keyword.
These types of errors are actually a good reason to use the override keyword.
The override keyword specifies that this function talk
is actually going to be overriding a virtual function somewhere.
It's not strictly required.
As you saw, we changed dog a second ago to inherit from
animal and compiled and run the program and and everything was fine.
Talk in that case actually did override the talk function in the animal base class.
But now we've specified that dog should have a function talk that
override something and we've reverted dog so it again does not inherit from animal.
So what we'll see when we compile
the program is that we get this error that that the function is marked override,
but it doesn't override anything.
Essentially, what this keyword is doing is
providing a little bit of compiler protection for us.
It saying, "Hey, you said that this function was going to override something.
It's not overriding anything."
That would cause me to say, "Oh,
It's not overriding anything because I forgot to have dog inherit from animal."
Now, I can compile
the program and now everything to compile is fine and it runs and it's great.
So in general, it's best practice to have
the override keyword attached to a function signature that's meant to override
a function from a base class and that's because the override keyword will
help the compiler understand what's going on and help
catch for any errors as the code is compiled.